Summer Examinations 2017/18
Exam Code(s) 4BS2, 4FM2, 4BCT1, 4BMS2, 4BME1, 1BMG1
Exam(s) 4th Science
Module(s) Networks
Module Code(s) CS4423
External Examiner(s) Prof. T. Brady
Internal Examiner(s) Prof. G. Ellis
*Prof. G. Pfeiﬀer
Instructions Answer all questions.
Duration 2 hours
No. of Pages 4 pages (including this cover page)
Discipline Mathematics
Requirements:
Release to Library Yes ✓ No
Release in Exam Venue Yes ✓ No
MCQ Yes No ✓
Statistical/Log Tables Yes No ✓

2
1.
(a) [10 marks]
(i) Describe Breadth First Search as an al-
gorithm for undirected graphs. What is
its input, what is its output, and what
sequence of steps is taken to produce the
output from the input?
(ii) In the network on the side, apply
Breadth First Search to determine a
spanning tree with root D and the short-
est distances from node D to each of the
other nodes in the graph.
A
B C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
(b) [10 marks] A graph, whose edges are all labelled either ‘ +’ or ‘−’, satisﬁes the Struc-
tural Balance Property , if any triangle in the graph ( 3 nodes joined by 3 edges)
has an odd number of edges (i.e., either 1 or all 3 edges) labelled ‘ +’ .
(i) What is a complete graph?
(ii) What does Harary’s Balance Theorem say about a complete graph whose
edges are all labelled either ‘ +’ or ‘ −’?
(iii) Sketch a proof of Harary’s Balance Theorem.
2.
(a) [10 marks]
(i) Provide a formal deﬁnition of a ﬁnite n-player game.
(ii) What is a best response and what is a Nash equilibrium in a game?
(iii) Consider the following 2-player game, where the rows correspond to player
A’s strategies, and the columns to player B’s strategies. The ﬁrst entry in
each box is player A’s payoﬀ and the second entry is player B’s payoﬀ.
L R
U 3, 3 1, 2
D 2, 1 3, 0
Find all (pure) Nash equilibria of this game. Then change one but not both
of the payoﬀs in the (U, L) entry in the above game to some nonnegative
integer value, so that the resulting game has no pure Nash equilibrium.
Compute a mixed-strategy equilibrium for the resulting game.

3
(b) [10 marks] Two cities, A and B, are joined by two routes through distinct citiesC and
D, and 80 cars need to travel from A to B. The ﬁrst route consists of a highway
from A to a city C and a local road from C into B. The second route consists of a
local road from A to a city D, and a highway from D to B. The travel time along
a highway is one hour, regardless of the number of cars using it. The travel time
along a local road is 10 plus the number of cars using it. Drivers simultaneously
choose which route to use.
(i) Draw the transport network described above and label each edge with the
time needed to travel along that edge. Let x be the number of cars travelling
along the ﬁrst route. Drivers simultaneously choose which route to use. Find
the Nash equilibrium value for x.
(ii) The government builds a new two-way road connecting cities C and D.
Describe the new routes from A to B which are added by this connection.
(iii) The new road is very short and takes no travel time at all. Find the new
Nash equilibrium. What happens to the total travel time as a result of the
availability of the new road?
3.
(a) [10 marks]
(i) Deﬁne the term bipartite graph. How can a bipartite graph be characterized
in terms of its cycles?
(ii) What does the Matching Theorem say about certain bipartite graphs?
(iii) Sketch a proof of the Matching Theorem.
(b) [10 marks]
(i) Describe the concept of market clearing prices between a set of sellers and
a set of buyers.
(ii) Suppose there are three sellers, A, B and C, and three buyers, X, Y and Z.
Each seller is oﬀering a house for sale, and the valuations of the buyers for
the houses are as listed in the following matrix.
A B C
X 3 6 4
Y 2 8 1
Z 1 2 3
Describe brieﬂy the bipartite graph auction procedure. Apply this procedure
to the above valuations in order to obtain a set of market clearing prices.
PTO.

4
4.
(a) [10 marks] Suppose that G = (X, E) is a directed network with node set X and edges
E ⊆ X2.
(i) Deﬁne what it means for G to be weakly connected, and what it means to
be strongly connected.
(ii) In general, a directed network is partitioned into strongly connected com-
ponents. Describe the equivalence relation that yields strongly connected
components as its equivalence classes in terms of E, regarded as a relation
on X.
(iii) Many directed networks, like the World Wide Web, have a giant strongly
connected component which covers a substantial part of the network. Name
the other parts of the so-called Bow-Tie diagram of the components in a
directed network, and describe each in terms of a suitable relation on the
set of strongly connected components.
(b) [10 marks]
(i) Describe the PageRank algorithm. What is its input, what is its output,
and what sequence of steps is used to compute the output from the input?
(ii) In this context, what is an equilibrium for PageRank?
(iii) In the network below, does the assignment of numbers to the nodes form an
equilibrium? Justify your answer.
E
1/4
A
1/4
B
1/8
D
1/8
C
1/8
G
1/8