Summer Examinations 2018/19
Exam Code(s) 4BS2, 4BMS2, 4FM2, 4BCT1, 4BME1, 1SPA1, 4SPE1
Exam(s) 4th Science
Module(s) Networks
Module Code(s) CS4423
External Examiner(s) Prof. T. Brady
Internal Examiner(s) Prof. G. Ellis
*Prof. G. Pfeiﬀer
Instructions Answer all questions.
Duration 2 hours
No. of Pages 3 pages (including this cover page)
Discipline Mathematics
Requirements:
Release to Library Yes ✓ No
Release in Exam Venue Yes ✓ No
MCQ Yes No ✓
Statistical/Log Tables Yes No ✓

2
1.
(a) [5 marks] What is a graph? What is a directed graph? What is a tree?
(b) [5 marks] At a party withn =5 people, some people know each other already while
others don’t. Each of the 5 guests is asked how many friends they have at this
party. Two report that they have one friend each. Two other guests have two
friends each, and the ﬁfth guest has three friends at the party. Understanding
friendship as a symmetric relation, is this network possible? Why, or why not?
(c) [10 marks]
(i) Describe Breadth First Search as an algorithm for undirected graphs. What
is its input, what is its output, and what sequence of steps is taken to
produce the output from the input?
(ii) In the network on the side, apply
Breadth First Search to determine a
spanning tree with rootG and the short-
est distances from nodeG to each of the
other nodes in the graph.
(iii) Use the Breadth First Search from part
(ii) to also determine, for each nodex, its
possible predecessors on a shortest path
fromG tox. Use this information to list
all shortest paths fromG toB.
A
B C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
2.
(a) [5 marks] Deﬁne the concepts of degree centrality and of normalized degree centrality
for a graph G.
LetG be the graph on the vertex set {1,2,3,4,5,6,7 } with edges 1 −2,1 −3,
2 −4,2 −5,3 −4,4 −6,5 −6 and6 −7. For each node in this graph G, deter-
mine its normalized degree centrality. (A sketch of G might be useful.)
(b) [5 marks] The fact that(
2 2
3 1
) (
1
1
)
=
(
4
4
)
=4
(
1
1
)
makesλ = 4 an eigenvalue with eigenvector v = ( 1
1 ) of the matrix A = ( 2 2
3 1 ).
The other eigenvalue of A is −1. With this example in mind, formulate the
Perron–Frobenius Theorem on square, irreducible, nonnegative matrices. Deﬁne
the concept of eigenvector centrality for a connected graph G.
(c) [5 marks] Deﬁne the concepts of closeness centrality and normalized closeness cen-
trality for a connected graph G. Give an example of a connected graph on 5
vertices with a node of normalized closeness centrality 1.
(d) [5 marks] Deﬁne the concepts of betweenness centrality and normalized betweenness
centrality for a connected graph G.

3
3.
(a) [10 marks]
(i) Deﬁne the two Erd˝ os–R´ enyi models,G(n,m ) andG(n,p ) of random graphs.
(ii) For a ﬁxed value of n, describe each of the two models as a probability
distribution on the set Gn of all graphs on the n nodesX = {1,2,...,n }.
(iii) For n =100 andp = 1
99, what is the probability that a graph G sampled
from the G(n,p ) model has exactly 50 edges?
(b) [10 marks]
(i) Deﬁne the degree distribution of a graph G.
(ii) What is the degree distribution in a random graph G in theG(n,p ) model?
What is the expected average degree in such a graph G?
(iii) Construct a graph G on 100 nodes by throwing a (fair, 6-sided) dice once
for each possible edge, adding the edge only if the dice shows a 6. Then pick
a node at random in this graph. What is the probability that this node has
degree10?
4.
(a) [10 marks]
(i) What is the node clustering coeﬃcient of a vertex x in a graph G? What is
the graph clustering coeﬃcient C ofG?
(ii) Determine the graph clustering coeﬃcient C of a random graph in the
G(n,p ) model. How does C behave in the limit n → ∞, when the av-
erage node degree is kept constant? What practical consequence does this
observation have?
(iii) Describe the Watts–Strogatz small-world model (WS model). What prop-
erties does a random graph sampled from the WS model have, that one
wouldn’t ﬁnd in a random graph sampled from the G(n,p ) model, or in an
(n,d )-circle graph?
(b) [10 marks] Suppose that G = (X,E ) is a directed network with node set X and edge
setE.
(i) Deﬁne what it means for G to be weakly connected, and what it means to
be strongly connected.
(ii) In general, a directed network is partitioned into strongly connected com-
ponents. Describe the equivalence relation that yields strongly connected
components as its equivalence classes in terms of the edge set E, regarded
as a relation on X.
(iii) Many directed networks, like the World Wide Web, have a giant strongly
connected component which covers a substantial part of the network. Name
the other parts of the so-called Bow-Tie diagram of the components in a
directed network, and describe each in terms of a suitable relation on the
set of strongly connected components.